AI #2350: Add Conditions to the spec (#2351)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/glossary.md

A [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) with [Billing Period Status](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstatus) set to "Open". Billing activities are ongoing, and the period remains subject to updates until formally closed.

<a name="glossary:operating-model"><b>Operating Model</b></a>

> A system of record and its associated logic, processes, and entities - encompassing both the original provider-sourced data and any subsequent metadata enrichment - used by a data generator to produce a FOCUS-compliant dataset. The operating model represents the verifiable state of capabilities and information available to the generator at the time of dataset creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A system of record and its associated logic, processes, and entities (encompassing both the original provider-sourced data and any subsequent metadata enrichment) used by a [*data generator*](#metadata.datagenerator) to produce a FOCUS-compliant dataset. The operating model represents the verifiable state of capabilities and information available to the *data generator* at the time of dataset creation.
```

Two small fixes packaged together. First, the spaced-hyphen parenthetical reads awkwardly; the FOCUS pattern in other glossary entries (e.g., commitment-program at line 90, sub-account at line 301) uses commas or parens instead of hyphen pairs. Second, other glossary entries link `data generator` on first occurrence (e.g., dataset-instance at line 134, native-dataset at line 224); this new entry should too.

> A system of record and its associated logic, processes, and entities (encompassing both the original provider-sourced data and any subsequent metadata enrichment) used by a [*data generator*](#metadata.datagenerator) to produce a FOCUS-compliant dataset. The operating model represents the verifiable state of capabilities and information available to the *data generator* at the time of dataset creation.

Reviewer 2: - **Shift from system-of-record (data-centric) to capability-centric framing**, moving the operating model from source/system-of-truth orientation to a view of available capabilities across entities — key change
- **Explicit inclusion of participating entities**, clarifying a multi-entity model where capabilities are distributed and shared across providers, issuers, and generators — additional clarification
- **Higher level of abstraction**, generalizing the model to a set of capabilities, constructs, and metadata enrichments — secondary refinement

```suggestion
A set of capabilities, constructs, business concepts, and associated metadata enrichments supported across participating entities (such as [*service providers*](#glossary.service-provider), host providers, [*invoice issuers*](#glossary.invoice-issuer), and [data generators](#metadata.datagenerator)) and available to a data generator when producing a FOCUS-compliant dataset. It reflects the verifiable state of these model elements at the time of dataset creation.
```

Author: @ijurica 
Agree with your feedback, but want to revise the precise verbiage.  How about:

```suggestion
The collective set of capabilities, business concepts, and data constructs underlying a FOCUS-compliant dataset. It encompasses features and metadata enrichments supported across participating entities (e.g., [*service providers*](#glossary:service-provider), host providers, [*invoice issuers*](#glossary:invoice-issuer), and [*data generators*](#glossary:data-generator)), reflecting the verifiable state of these elements at the time of dataset creation.
```

Author: Synced, discussed, edited, and agreed with @ijurica.  Committing the above.

A pricing construct that encompasses SKU properties (e.g., functionality and technical specifications), along with core stable pricing details for a particular SKU, while excluding dynamic or negotiable pricing elements such as unit price amounts; currency (and related exchange rates); temporal validity (e.g., effective dates); and contract- or negotiation-specific factors (e.g., contract or account identifiers and negotiable discounts).

<a name="glossary:source-operating-model"><b>Source Operating Model</b></a>

> A system of record and its associated logic, processes, and entities—encompassing both the original provider-sourced data and any subsequent metadata enrichment—used by a data generator to produce a FOCUS-compliant dataset. The source operating model represents the verifiable state of capabilities and information available to the generator at the time of dataset creation.

Author: ```suggestion
A system of record and its associated logic, processes, and entities - encompassing both the original provider-sourced data and any subsequent metadata enrichment - used by a data generator to produce a FOCUS-compliant dataset. The source operating model represents the verifiable state of capabilities and information available to the generator at the time of dataset creation.
```
